# Low Supply

## Stuck in a Line 😢
lol just went to a career fair today (I am a cs major btw) and it was crowded. I've been thinking about how I got here in the first place. It all started when I was in middle school. The teachers would show us videos of how learning to code could land you a very comfortable job and free drinks and free food at work (omg, everyone loves free food, right?) Now, this advice primarily came from people older than us (often the working class). They would tell us, "Don't do what I did", and the most common phrase that got thrown around at an exponentially increasing job market was, "You should do [so and so] because it is in 'high demand.'" The number of times I've heard "high demand" being described as a career field astonishes me. What normally happens when a new job market gets created like programming is there are relatively few employees and a lot of work to get done which means employers can't be too picky about the cost of each employee, but when they mention everyone to do it and it is in "high demand", then people come flooding in desperation in hopes of improving their financial circumstances.

## The Market 📉
Surprisingly, the job software engineering job market is still in "high demand". Then, why is it so hard to find a job you might ask? Well, that is because the field is also in high supply as well. And I find it very strange how everyone talks about careers based on their demand and not their supply (it is like they assume the high demand will make it easy for them). On the other hand, supply is how many people are skilled at that task. If you are the only person who knows Python, and some employers are desperate for someone proficient in Python. That is low supply high demand, which will guarantee your employment rather than the current CS/SWE job market (which is experiencing a high supply high demand scenario). So, why do I recommend staying away from demand? Because the markets are always fluctuating and mastery takes time so when a market is at its peak while you are a novice in the subject, there is no guarantee that the market will stay that way.

## What you should look for... 🧐
But... what you can do is try to work for careers that are in low supply and the reason I recommend this is because it puts you on the opposite side of the game board. you are no longer participating in the competition. Rather, you are observing it. You observe how people mimic each other only to realize it ends with a dead end and they couldn't see the dead end because they were surrounded by all these people. Ok, well how do I find a field that is low supply then? Well, majors that typically tend to be the lowest of supply are normally the hardest ones (with no hanging carrot at the end). Now I'm not saying that pick a career that will guarantee you stay broke for the rest of your life. but, I think it is important to pick a major that you find interesting and is very hard. Picking a hard major comes with many overlooked advantages, one of them being no one does them, the second one is most people start to realize what they are capable of once they put themselves in hard situations.

## The last one standing 🧍
Let me give an example about the former and then I will return to the latter. When I was at my new student orientation, they grouped all the STEM students. Around half of the students were planning on majoring in Computer Science, the other half planning on majoring in Biology (mainly as a Pre-med) and there were only a handful of Math and Chemistry majors, and, there was only ONE Physics major. The fact that there was only one Physics major from a group of a hundred students means that most people aren't willing to do it which eliminates a lot of competition from the beginning. The latter point can be summed up into one word: resilience. The beauty of resilience is that there is more emphasis on the journey instead of the destination. Through each hardship, more and more people give up resulting in even less competition. When you're in a class, and after every test grade you receive, half the class drops out. The achievement no longer becomes thriving, it becomes surviving.

## Behold... the perfect major 😯
There are a lot of hard careers, so which one should you pursue? It is important to pursue the path that hasn't been created so you can be the first to forge it. As you sit on the other side of the game board and watch over people competing. You have to understand that competing in the first place is useless. There is a saying, "Escape competition through authenticity because no one is better than you at being you." So find whatever (hard thing) interests you and just go all in and don't let people convince you otherwise.
